This article is divided into two sections: What Git Is, and How to Use It

<h1>What Git Is</h1>
  &nbsp;&nbsp;Git is a way of synchronizing our files in one place from different devices so we don't have to worry about overwriting changes made by other developers. Technically, Git is its own standalone thing, but the main way of harnessing Git's awesome power is through GitHub, the place where you're (probably) reading this right now. GitHub basically takes the messes that Git makes and makes it look pretty for the developers, so I'll be focusing mostly on what Git is.
  <br>&nbsp;&nbsp;The first term you should now is <b>respository</b>. A repository is the place where all the code of a particular project is stored. For MyMICDS.net specifically, we have two main repositories: MyMICDS-v2 and MyMICDS-v2-Angular. The former is where we put a lot of the back-end stuff and the latter is for the front end. These repositories are basically like folders on your computer. You can do a lot of things with repositories, but one of the most important things is <b>cloning</b>. More on how to do that in the next section. When you clone a repository, a copy of the repository is stored on your device with some special Git magic in the background that helps Git programs recognize it as a repository and not just some other folder on your computer. Now that you've got the clone on your device, you'll probably want to make some changes. The first thing you'll want to do is make a <b>branch</b>. A branch basically makes sure that any bugs that come up while you're developing don't get put up on the website for the entire MICDS community to see until you've fixed them. After you branch, any edits you make will be stored in a separate history on that branch, and the only time your code will ever touch the main repository is if you create a <b>pull request</b>. A pull request is your way of telling the admins of the project that this particular branch you've made is bug-free and ready to be added to the main website. After submitted the request, the senior devs will review it, and it will be <b>merged</b> if they don't find any problems, meaning your code is now part of the website!
  <br>&nbsp;&nbsp;Now, saving the files on your computer after you've changed them isn't enough to get them put on to the branch. In order to do that, you'll need to <b>commit</b> your code. This is basically you telling Git that this particular set of changes you've made is good and you'd like to move on. If you manage to mess everything up after you've committed, you can always revert back. That's what it's for! Once you've finished committing all your changes on your device, you'll want to send it up to the cloud by <b>pushing</b> it. This sends all your commits to Git and writes them to the branch.
  <br>&nbsp;&nbsp;If you've made it this far, great work! now, take a look below at how to do all of the stuff I just described.

<h1>How to Use It</h1>
There's a lot behind Git that doesn't need to be understood, but you do need to understand how we use it here at MyMICDS.net. There's really two different ways of using it, so pick the one that suits your coding style best.

<h3>Method 1: Using a GUI</h3>
  There are a few programs on the internet that synchronize with your GitHub account to create a visual way of interacting with the repository. The best ones are GitHub Desktop and GitKraken.
	<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;GitHub Desktop is software made by GitHub to make interacting with the repository a lot easier. You can clone, commit, push, and merge with just the click of a few buttons. However, it is still in Beta and some bugs may pop up. It also doesn't have as many features as the command line.
	<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;GitKraken is similar, but it's made by a third party and has a bit of a learning curve. It looks a lot cooler though. In general, it's a little more powerful than Desktop and offers more information on what everyone else is doing.
	
<h3>Method 2: Using Git Bash</h3>
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;Git Bash is a command-line-based program that allows you to get involved with your code and Git a lot more intimately. After you've made changes to your code in your chosen IDE use <pre>$ git status</pre> to see what files you've changed compared to the master branch. However, you don't want to commit to the master branch, so the first thing you'll want to do is type <pre>$ git branch my-branch</pre> In order to navigate between your new branch and the master branch, use <pre>$ git checkout master</pre> Once you've checked out your branch and figured out your status, you'll want to type <pre>$ git add *</pre> This adds all the files you changed into the queue to be committed. If you don't do this, your next commit won't have any of your changes. The * will add all your files. If you don't want to add all your files, you'll have to type out the file names manually. Once you've added all the files, type <pre>$ git commit</pre> BOOM! You've just made your first commit. If you want to get that puppy sent up to the cloud, type <pre>$ git push</pre> If it's your first time pushing that branch, it's going to say something about setting the upstream. Just type whatever it recommends and try again. There you go! You've made your first branch. Now you can go to GitHub.com and create a pull request. Happy Coding!
